[Music]
ferns come in all shapes and sizes and
right here in Tazi we've got plenty of
them I'm in the Tasmanian fernery just
over from the patch and today I'm going
to show you how to look after your fern
starting with the golden rule pick a
species that's right for the climate
that you live in the majority of ferns
are found in the tropics but the
examples we have here have evolved in
our cool temperate climate so they're
well set up for the tasmanian winters
[Music]
just as important as choosing the right
species is choosing the right spot in
the garden to plant them most firms
don't like harsh afternoon Sun and
strong winds some are okay with it but
if you want that traditional green look
you've got to plant them in the shade
[Music]
this is a fishbone water fern and it
will tolerate some Sun as long as
there's a bit of protection and plenty
of water around just having ferns in
your garden isn't really enough
you want them to absolutely thrive be
the envy of your neighbors when you were
gardener of the Year award maybe either
way providing the correct nutrients is
vital for your ferns just before their
active growth period apply a light top
dressing and flooding vine and then in
the warmer months during their active
growth give them a liquid feed of 1/2
mix of seaweed and fish emulsion ferns
can be quite sensitive and organic
fertilizers are critical just knock back
your mix by half to a third
concentration burns are shallow rooted
so mulch is important to keep their
roots cooler in the summer and a bit
warmer in the winter use a chunky mulch
like this one and reapply fresh mulch
every spring cut off any old
sick-looking
or dead fronds if the plant is being fed
through the growth period and take them
back about 15 centimetres from the base
the old stubs that are left on the trunk
are a good indicator by managing your
old fronds you're actually hoping to
manage pests like thrip that if they
take hold will distort the fronds as
they unfurl ferns don't just have to
grow in the ground this kangaroo foot
fern here is going quite happily on this
deck so near here
many species are epiphytes so they'll
grow on tree branches and rocks hand
watering and drip systems are the best
approach to watering ferns a lot of
people say you should only feed and
water your ferns from the center it
doesn't really matter as long as you're
getting water and nutrient in there in
fact these are rhizomes so by watering
the trunk you're watering the exposed
roots
burns can be quite happy inside too as
long as it's not too hot or too sunny
bathrooms can be a great place to put
them in over the winter and it's a good
idea to regularly spray over the top of
them with water I like to put them in a
saucer in a bit of rock or pebble and
then fill that with water and that
creates a good bit of humidity around
the plant without running the roots
[Music]
none of these techniques are
particularly hard so get out there and
get cracking and give your ferns a care
package to keep them happy and healthy
wherever they are inside or out
[Music]